[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello, everyone.
Welcome back to "The Quest
for the Cures Continues."
In last night's episode,
we concluded with a story
from Dr. Nicholas Gonzales
about Steve McQueen,
the star of "The Great Escape,"
who died of mesothelioma.
Most of us had heard that he
died from some quack doctor
using a natural cancer
treatment, but in reality--
and Dr. Gonzales
shared this with us,
he has the medical records
in his office now in New York
City--
Steve McQueen actually
died from the surgery,
not from the treatment.
In tonight's
episode, we're going
to learn about more
suppressed information, more
disinformation, and
it's going to lead off
with an interview with Dr.
Sunil Pai I was thrilled
to be able to meet Dr. Sunil Pai
the 1st of September in 2014.
We both spoke at a cancer
conference in Los Angeles.
And I was able to
sit down with him
and I learned about his
protocols for treating cancer.
Now, he's a conventionally
trained doctor.
In other words, he's a medical
doctor conventionally trained,
but he's decided
to integrate a lot
of these natural, herbal
therapies, including cannabis,
into his protocols.
You're going to learn a
lot from this episode.
So grab a chair, get a pen
and paper to take some notes,
and enjoy the show.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Early this year, I spoke at
the Cancer Control Society
Convention in LA.
And while I was
there, I met up with
an amazing integrated medical
doctor named Sunil Pai.
>> As an integrated
physician, as an MD,
my job is to offer all the
opportunities and options.
And so unfortunately, many
people go conventional.
It may be my personal option
that I wouldn't if I was them,
but I still have to present
them with their options
depending on their
social economics,
if they have insurance or not.
Unfortunately, a
lot of people today
are going to opt
for conventional
because it's covered.
And I heard a lot
of people say, oh, I
had to get my chemotherapy
because it was covered.
I'd rather go to
this clinic, say,
here in Mexico or California,
but I can't afford it.
Right?
As an integrated
physician, what I look at
is how to improve outcomes.
So to me, I present
all the data and I
looked at whether
you go conventional,
whether you go alternative,
or for me as an integrated
physician, we're trying to
look at the best of everything,
I always look at how can we
always improve the outcome.
How do we take a toxic therapy
and make it more targeted
and less side effects.
>> So you say toxic
therapy more targeted.
Like IPTLD?
>> Yeah.
Even now, it's
like, for example,
even though IPT has
a lot of benefits,
we're still giving chemo,
even on a low dose.
And so now there's
certain clinics
and certain people
are saying, well,
maybe that one tenth
is one tenth too much.
Is it better than 90%?
Absolutely.
And now we have the studies,
which I showed today,
and further data we'll
have, but almost all the 13
or 14 major chemotherapy agents
that is used in all cancers
with the animal studies
and the human studies
will show that they
always do better
with those other
products like curcumin.
So if people go for conventional
therapy or even doing IPT,
we still should be using
these other therapies
to help, again,
lower the toxicity
and then kind of
sensitize the tumor
to those targeted effects.
I also use ginger and
also black pepper.
And so when we put those in
combination, ginger is also--
now most people think of it
just for nausea or vomiting.
And actually, the
ginger has also
been shown to block NF-kB,
LOX enzymes, COX enzymes.
And it has a synergistic
effect with the curcumin
and the Boswellia.
So in Ayurvedic medicine,
we have formulas.
And, you know, when I was
conventionally trained,
we were always thinking a
single magic bullet effect
and we just gave one
product of high doses.
And when we look at
traditional cultures
like Ayurvedic medicine
or Chinese medicine,
they have formulas.
And the reason is there's
a word called synergy.
That means that when we
use different ingredients,
they work together to have
a larger beneficial effect.
And also sometimes they can even
mitigate certain side effects
even of each other.
>> The synergy.
And it's hard because it's like
putting multiple drugs in one
thing, but when we use
it as food or spices,
we never just use
one spice in a meal,
we're putting multiple things.
And the fourth ingredient
is black pepper.
And we use something
called piperine.
Or BioPerine is the
patented form of that,
and that absorbs your
product 30% to 60% better.
So when we put
pepper on our food,
it's not only an anti-cancer
block of kappa beta and LOX
enzymes as well, it's
also an antioxidant
and also helps bioavailable
enhance the digestion.
>> So that's why a lot of times
I've seen people mix in black
pepper with other ingredients
because it helps all of them
become more bioavailable
in your system.
>> Right.
And traditionally, in
every Ayurvedic formula,
we'd always put that in.
>> Black pepper.
>> But also every meal at
every restaurant you go--
tonight we'll go home and we're
going to have something there
to crush some pepper.
It's to improve that
absorption to the body.
>> I've always done it just
because I like the taste.
>> I love the taste.
>> I guess I was doing a good
thing and didn't know it.
>> A good thing.
It's a very good thing.
One of the natural treatments
that Dr. Pai has researched
is medicinal hemp or cannabis.
He cleared up some
of the misconceptions
about this plant.
>> There's a lot of
misunderstanding and misuse
of cannabis, right?
And so many people
think of marijuana.
Now with the
legalization and a lot
of things in the news of
different states turning over
to have more open
legal use of marijuana.
Now, in my state,
for example, we
have medical
marijuana that can be
useful for patients that have
cancer or intractable pain.
It's still very difficult
for the patient to get that.
And the history goes with it,
the medical cannabis, or just
cannabis in general,
is that we've
been able to breed the
plant so it has higher THC.
THC is the psychogenic
component-- the part
that makes people high.
OK?
And CBD is a part of the
medical mar-- or marijuana.
I'm not calling it
medical marijuana
because we use it
more medically now.
But CBD is a part
of the plant that
has actually more of
the health benefits.
Unfortunately, since it
was an illegal drug, then
as most things that are
illegal, the higher that you
make the high--
or for example in alcohol,
say the beer is 8% alcohol,
but if I sell Everclear,
it costs more.
You'll get drunk faster,
so they can charge you
more for that, right?
So same thing with
the marijuana.
The more that the person
got more stoned or high,
the better they thought it was.
And so there was
a market of people
who wanted to do it for that.
But the rest of the world
were looking at the CBD,
the cannabidiol components.
And there's hundreds of these
families of these compounds
called cannabidiols.
And THC, unfortunately,
got mixed up
because it's coming from
the marijuana plant.
Now, interesting thing is
we can find it separately
from the hemp plant.
And industrial
hemp, unfortunately,
got mixed up with
the marijuana plant,
even though they're
from the same family.
But legally, it got mixed up
because of political reasons
and authorities.
>> Sure.
>> We can talk about that
if you want to in a minute.
But the nice thing is that,
interestingly enough, when
they grow the hemp
plant, it predominately
has CBD only and traces of
THC, and therefore, people
can't get high off of
taking the cannabidiols.
And some people are
unhappy about that,
but we like it because
now we can use it
to treat a variety of people.
Particularly patients
who have seizures.
Children with these
seizure syndromes
that we've seen many
documentary films recently.
Very helpful.
Cancer patients can use it,
or just as anti-inflammatory
without the high effect.
Most of my patients want to
drive, they want to go to work,
they operate machinery.
They don't want to be laying
down sleeping or tired all day.
Or stoned, for that matter.
And so the nice thing
is we can get the CBD
from that natural source.
>> Right.
And so they can get
the medicinal effect
without the high.
>> Absolutely.
We say get the healthy
without the high.
CBD now is legal
in all 50 states,
as long as the source is coming
from a reputable benefactor
that makes sure that there
is low amounts of THC
so you can't get high.
Now, with the advent
of the internet,
now access is everywhere.
And there's certain states
that you can grow it.
There's people that are selling
things on the internet, which,
again, it's not
tested bash per batch,
so there is a variance
and a problem that
will occur over time.
But when we look at it through
reputable manufacturers
like the ones that
we use in our clinic,
then it's each batch is tested.
But now only for
the amount of CBD
and how much THC so we can
make sure it's still legal,
but we also look for
heavy metals, pesticides,
contaminants like
molds and bacteria.
We've seen a lot of those
kind of contaminants coming
in from industrial hemp oil
that comes from China, which is
a large production right now.
Our sources, for example,
come from Europe.
Eventually, most of this will
be grown in the United States--
yea-- which is good because
it's a sustainable crop.
We can then not only
use the CBD for health,
but we can use the hemp
for paper products,
for clothing, for rope.
>> Declaration of Independence.
>> Bibles were printed on it.
So, you know, there's
a lot of historical use
of hemp in this country.
It grows four times the
amount in one fourth
of the space and use of water.
I showed that slide
on Kentucky is now
growing industrial hemp
instead of tobacco.
So it's putting the farmers,
keeping them working, but not
growing a crop that causes
cancer, but actually treats
cancer.
>> And the new thing
is cannabis hemp oil.
I don't know how much
you've heard about that.
But you basically take
marijuana and boil it
down to two ounces
of the essential oil.
Preferably with Everclear
or some kind of food grade
solvent.
And boom.
You've got yourself not only
possibly the cancer cure,
but the Crohn's cure, the
AIDS cure, the diabetes cure.
And then I use the
word cure lightly
because there is no such thing.
I mean, sure, you can cure it,
but there's no silver bullet.
I don't want to get
anybody too excited,
because there is no silver
bullet from what I've seen.
Cannabis hemp oil would
definitely be in my arsenal
for the CBD and the THC.
The THC, they're
both cannabinoids.
The THC will get you high, but
that is more for the cancer.
So for cancer patients,
I would recommend
getting the higher TH.
But the CBDs are very, very
important too for healing.
Those are the ones that Dr.
Sanjay Galupte brought out
that are curing--
>> On CNN.
>> --the seizures on
the children, right?
He's the guy that said, oh, no,
marijuana is bad, years ago.
And now he's come
back and said, oops.
I was wrong.
Nice guy for doing that because
not a lot of them do that.
Admit they're wrong.
And so many children are being
saved because of that guy
coming out with CNN.
And god bless CNN, too.
I don't know how you
guys are doing it.
How are you guys
telling the truth?
>> So would you call hemp an
evil weed or a miracle plant?
>> I call it god's gift.
>> I would have to
agree with Ian Jacklin.
Hemp is god's gift.
In this next clip,
Dr. James Forsythe,
who is a traditionally
trained oncologist,
described some of the
treatments that they
used at his clinic in Reno,
Nevada from vitamin C,
to hydrogen peroxide, to what
he calls it the FIP, Forsythe
Immune Protocol.
>> So over the years and
since the early 2000s,
I've done studies on pawpaw
from the pawpaw tree,
which that's a Nature's
Sunshine product,
and that causes cancer cells to
go into programmed cell death.
And then I did a study
for the Sanchez family
on Poly-MVA, which is a complex
of lipoic acid and palladium.
And that also hyperenergized
the cancer cell
and triggers through
the mitochondria
the process of apoptosis.
So the cancer cells, which
don't know how to die
and they didn't
have enough energy
to go into a death spiral,
they basically now can die off,
and so that was effective.
Then I did the Forsythe
Immune Protocol, FIP,
which is a number of agents.
And started to use some genomic
testing, then, and some IPT.
And that program
lasted about five years
and it got about a 45% survival
rate, which was 22% higher
than the conventional guys.
Not 22%, but 22 times
higher, I should say.
>> 22 times higher.
>> And then the last study
I've engaged in started in June
of 2010 and it's
now 15 months old.
That's when my paper
was presented here
at the conference was
15 months, 650 patients
showing a 67% higher, which
was now making the survival
rate 33 times higher.
>> And what does that protocol
that you've been testing?
>> That protocol basically
is one in which we do genomic
testing, gene testing
on every patient.
We send their blood off, we look
for circulating tumor cells.
And thanks to the
Human Genome Project,
we're able to tell
the patient what
that result what drugs, what
hormones, and what supplements
work best.
So now if, god forbid,
you had a prostate cancer,
you came to me with
stage four disease,
I'd be able to give
you a report showing
what are the best
hormones for you, what
are the best supplements,
and what are the best drugs.
And that's unique to
you and your genes.
It's not for every patient with
prostate cancer or something,
because your genes are only
yours and no one else's.
You're going to respond
differently to different drugs.
Before, on the other side of the
fence, it was a guessing game.
I would be guessing
what would help you.
And as I tell all my
patients, if I guess wrong,
I'm giving you a poison.
I'm hurting you.
And it's as simple as that.
I don't want to do that anymore.
>> Well, that would be
violating the Hippocratic Oath.
>> Yes, that's right.
>> You would be
harming patients.
>> So basically, by getting a
blueprint, I'm right on track.
That's why our survival
rate is better than most.
We compared ourselves with the
NCI, National Cancer Institute,
and Cancer Treatment
Centers of America.
Same for in breast cancer.
Their survival rate
after two years
stage four disease was 43%,
Cancer Treatment Centers
was 64%, and ours was 85%.
So, you know, we beat
them both significantly.
>> Now, you said one of
the treatments I guess
you've studied or you've
been using is the FIP.
The Immune Protocol
>> Forsythe Immune--
>> The Forsythe Immune Protocol.
Can you describe
that a little bit?
>> Well, it's like what
we call a Myers' Cocktail.
It's an immune stimulant.
It has DMSO in it.
It has selenium.
It has important immune
stimulants, vitamins, minerals,
amino acids.
And that's one of
the immune therapies.
We use high dose C. We go
from 50 to 75 grams of C twice
a week.
>> Intravenous?
>> Intravenous.
Oh, yeah.
You can't give that much orally.
>> Yeah.
I thought that'd probably
cause some severe intestinal
problems.
>> Yeah.
You're not going to
handle that very well.
Hydrogen peroxide, which
is a bio-oxidative therapy.
That's given intravenously.
And then Poly-MVA, which is the
lipoic acid palladium complex,
which is very effective.
And then the L-glutathione
amino acid IV.
So basically what
happens, Ty, is
they're getting immune
therapies three days a week.
Monday, Wednesday, Friday.
They're getting IPT.
And I've modified
the IPT program
from what was originally started
40 years ago in South America
by putting the insulin right
in with the chemo right
from the start.
So you get less
severe reactions.
So you're not going to get the
severe hypoglycemic reactions.
>> And you're using the IPT.
It's low dose chemo--
>> 10% dose.
10% to 15% max.
>> So you have very, very little
side effects with that, right?
>> Our patients don't lose
hair, they don't get sick,
they don't have rashes,
don't get organ toxicity,
chemo brain, none
of that happens.
>> One of the
treatments that Dr.
Forsythe just
mentioned is IPTLD--
insulin potentiated targeted
low dose chemotherapy.
In this next clip, Dr.
Murray "Buzz" Susser
sheds some more light
on this treatment.
>> IPT is a good option.
I've seen people who
had exhausted everything
in conventional medicine, and
conventional chemotherapy,
conventional everything,
and they always
give that little phrase, go home
and get your things in order.
>> Sure.
>> You know, that's
a real doctory thing.
>> Yeah.
>> And with the IPT,
a lot of these people,
instead of getting
their things in order,
took IPT and got a lot of good
results and a good quality
of life.
IPT is insulin
potentiation therapy.
Now they're calling it
low dose chemotherapy.
>> IPTLD.
Sure.
Can you kind of
describe what is IPTLD?
What is the low dose IPT?
>> Well, the low dose
IPT, the low dose therapy,
has to do with fooling
the cancer cells.
Cancer cells eat sugar at
about 19 times the speed
of healthy cells.
And cancer cells
have races for sugar.
Which, you should say, that's
one of the good management
aspects of treating
cancer patients
is take them off
every drop of sugar.
Not a speck.
But with IPT, what you
do is you give insulin,
and insulin lowers
the blood sugar.
And you adjust to get the
right amount of insulin,
and you give it, and you
lower the blood sugar
below its normal rate of about
90 or 100 milligrams per set.
And when it gets down to 40
range, you get really sick.
I mean, you feel sick.
It's not dangerous,
but it feels terrible.
It gets danger when you get
down around 20, or 10, or zero.
But at 40, it's not dangerous,
but it's quite unpleasant.
And what's happened, it's
unpleasant for the cancer
cells.
It's more because
they're starving.
And cancer cells are really good
at selecting out chemotherapy.
They won't take chemotherapy,
but they will take sugar.
And when you take
away all the sugar,
then the cancer cells
will take anything.
That's kind of
like someone dying
of thirst on the
ocean in an ocean raft
and they drink salt water.
>> Drink salt water.
OK.
>> They know it's not good
for them and it kills them.
But the cancer cells then will
take the chemotherapy instead
because they can't get sugar.
And that gives a tremendous
benefit therapeutically.
And the numbers are
really fantastic on that
because the IPT gives
you 200% or 300% therapy
with 10% of the toxicity.
>> Right.
>> You give a tiny dose of
chemotherapy at the therapeutic
moment when the blood
sugar reaches 40.
You give the IV chemotherapy.
>> And so that's more of a
selectively toxic treatment
towards the cancer cells than
just blasting the whole body
with chemo.
>> Exactly.
That's exactly
the way to put it.
>> So then you can
use a smaller dose.
You can lessen the side effects
because you're using, what?
You said 1/10 of a
dose of normal chemo
and get better results.
>> 10% of the dose.
>> OK.
>> And these are people, many
of them, most of them perhaps,
have already failed at all
the conventional methods,
and so there's nothing left.
But the conventional
methods are growing now
and some of these
people wind up getting
deeper and deeper radiation,
so it's really frying them.
And they need larger and
larger doses of chemo,
so that's frying them.
And the surgery
becomes imponderable
because the tumor invades
things that you can't cut out.
>> Right.
>> I've heard, I can't
remember who it was,
said that IPTLD turns chemo,
it changes came from a shotgun
into a rifle.
>> A sniper rifle.
>> Sniper rifle.
There you go.
>> I watch the military channel.
>> There you go.
So we've got a sniper rifle
chemotherapy treatment
with IPTLD.
>> Yeah.
And I used to fire missiles and
rockets from fighter planes.
>> Did you?
>> That was just my
Disneyland stuff.
>> That was pre-med school days.
>> Pre-med school.
Yeah.
I was a trained killer.
>> Were you?
And now you're a trained healer.
>> Yeah.
>> You're on the other
side of the coin.
>> I'd rather do
healing than killing.
>> So I'm one of I think four
doctors now that is qualified
to teach insulin
potentiated chemotherapy--
IPT.
And that is a fabulous
way to do chemotherapy.
So fabulous that I just think
it's illogical for anyone who's
going to get chemotherapy,
if they want to do chemo,
they should do IPT.
A couple of quick reasons.
And this might be included in
other people discussing it,
but you have to know that
when you give insulin,
it shifts the cancer
cells to what's
called the S phase, or
the synthesis phase,
or the active phase, and
that's the only phase that
chemotherapy can be effective.
So you have really four phases
that the cancer cell can be,
so you've got a 25% chance
that if you give chemo,
it's going to kill
the cancer cell.
Well, if you give
insulin beforehand,
it pushes them at
about 70% S phase.
So now you've got almost
a three out of four chance
to kill cancer cells.
Well, if you're
going to give chemo,
let's kill the cancer cells.
Just giving a little
insulin pushes
the cells into the
vulnerable phase.
The second thing I like
about insulin potentiated
chemotherapy is that when
you give the insulin,
it makes the cell
membrane not only more
permeable to
chemotherapy selectively
compared to your
other healthy cells,
but it also inhibits
the cancer cell
from kicking out
toxic chemotherapy.
>> So then really what we're
looking at is sort of like
insulin potentiation low dose
chemo is a treatment that
I've become familiar with.
People have mentioned this
in this interview series,
this docuseries that
we're doing that they
use the insulin as a potentiator
to kind of trick the cancer
cells into opening up, and
then the chemo kills them.
>> Right.
>> So the same basic principle.
>> I'm glad you brought that
up because when I first got
started into cancer research,
there was a clinic down
in the southeast--
I can't remember which
exactly which state it was in.
And one of the cancer
patients I was working with
was going to that clinic.
It used DMSO and low
dose chemotherapy.
I called it DMSO
potentiation therapy.
It doesn't really have a name.
That's just my name.
But DMSO and MSM are
not glucose products,
but they have a propensity
to target cancer
cells by themselves
and they open the ports
to the cancer cells.
And so DMSO and
low chemotherapy--
I mean, there are four
different types of chemotherapy
that actually bind to DMSO.
And so DMSO and low
dose chemotherapy,
the right kind of low
was being used in one of
the clinics down there.
I never got around
to contacting them
because they were
shut down by the FDA.
But that would be even better
than insulin potentiation
therapy.
>> Fascinating information from
Webster Kehr, The Cancer Tutor,
about using substances
such as DMSO to bind
to the chemotherapy so that
much smaller doses can be used.
By the way, Webster Kehr
was one of the first ones
that I began to learn from
as I began to research cancer
treatments over 15 years ago.
Listen to Webster
in this next clip
as he describes the Royal
Raymond Rife treatment using
frequency generators.
>> In the 1930s, Royal
Rife, Dr. Royal Rife,
who was a microbiologist, knew
that there were microbes inside
the cancer cells.
And he came up with
an electro medicine
device, a couple
of them actually,
which was designed to do
nothing but kill the microbes
inside the cancer cells.
When he did that, of
course, the cancer cells
reverted into normal cells.
Now, one of his
major contributions,
aside from finding
the right frequencies,
was that he also determined
that you needed a carrier
wave to get the cancer, the
microbe killing, the cancer
microbe killing frequency
all the way through the body
so it would kill all the
microbes in the cancer cells.
Would not harm natural
cells because natural cells,
healthy cells don't have
these microbes in them.
It would only
affect the microbes
in the bloodstream,
which are good to kill.
There's very few
microbes that are good.
There are a few that
are good, but it's not
going to bother them.
Even if you kill
them, it's not really
going to have a lot of effect.
So he developed this technology.
The American Medical
Association tried to buy him out
and he refused because
he did not trust them.
Good for him.
And so the Food and
Drug Administration
went down and destroyed his
laboratory, his equipment,
and destroyed all
of his inventory.
>> What other treatments
would you recommend for cancer
patients that may be a nontoxic
treatment that don't create
cancer, that don't cause cancer,
but that would be able to get
cancer under control that
wouldn't have the direct
effects that the chemo might?
>> You know, I'm actually
currently working on the most
phenomenal herbal nutritional
natural agent that I've seen
to date.
It's beyond my belief system
right now that it is that good,
but I'm under strict
confidentiality
that I can't share that.
But there are good herbals
and nutritionals out there.
Salvestrol is a
great nutritional
that anyone can get.
You can mail order.
Go online and get it.
You have to take it with
biotin to help it work.
Artemisinin-- it's the
number one anti-malaria
drug in the world.
Great anti-parasitic, but it's
a good anti-cancer, natural
anti-cancer agent.
You have to take it with iron.
So you have to know
the nuances of a lot
of these natural agents
to get them to work.
And, you know, you
want a coach, someone
knowledgeable in understanding
because, like, artemisinin,
you can't take resveratol
with it because--
actually, that's salvestrol
because it neutralizes it.
So you don't want to just, oh,
this is good, this is good,
this is good, and do the--
>> You don't want to throw
Jell-O at the wall and see
if it sticks.
>> There you go.
You don't want to
stir it in the pot.
You want someone who knows
how these things go together.
What's working here,
what's working here,
what's working here so that--
I am a orchestra director.
I tell the oboes when to play,
and the flutes, and the drums.
And that's my job, is to
orchestrate a patient's
treatment back to health.
And so that's what I
have, is knowledge.
And knowledge is
very empowering.
So you know what fits together,
you know when to give what,
and where, and how
these things work
together so that the patient
becomes healthy again.
>> You talked about this herbal
product that you can't mention.
I appreciate that.
But what are the
characteristics,
the methods of action of
a good herbal product,
a good natural product?
How do they control the
cancer, and what kind of effect
they have on the immune system,
the detoxification process?
Share with us the typical
methods of action.
>> There are so many good,
non-toxic ways to treat cancer
that it's laughable what
standard medicine is doing.
But they all work
in different ways.
For instance, salvestrol
works on an enzyme system.
CYP1B1 is the enzyme
system that it works on.
Well, this is a natural product
found in fruits and vegetables
that CYP1B1 enzyme converts
into a toxic product.
So this fruit extract, vegetable
extract acts as a pro-drug.
It's not a drug.
Your normal cells don't
have that enzyme system,
so it can't convert it.
So it doesn't hurt normal cells.
But the cancer cells
have the CYP1B1,
so it converts it into
a toxic substance,
killing the cancer cells.
So that's just an
instance of how
a particular natural
therapy might work.
And why don't we have
salvestrol today in our body?
Well, natural fruits
and vegetables
produce it just in the
last day or two right
as they become
ripe because that's
when they're higher
in sugars, and that's
when fungi tend to attack
the fruits and vegetables.
So that's when they
make salvestrol.
Who eats vine
ripened fruit today?
>> Unless you have your
own garden, you don't.
>> That's it.
Nobody, because it's
all picked green.
I don't care if you're
eating it in a natural food
store or an organic food store.
It was still picked green to
ship to you because that's
the only way that they can
get it there and not lose
half their produce to spoilage.
So we are eating all this food
that's salvestrol depleted,
one of the very agents
that mother nature uses
to kill cancer cells.
Which ma and pa got
back on the farm,
but in the city buying it from
the store, we don't get it.
>> Dr. Johnson just described
two of the treatments that he
uses, salvestrol
and artemisinin.
In this next clip let's
listen to Bob Wright talk
about Protandim, a
supplement that he
uses, and also organic sulfur.
>> When you think
about Protandim,
it's a concoction of five
different, basically, herbs.
You've got herbs and
plants, green tea leaf,
you've got turmeric, and you've
got several other things that
are actually very
efficacious against cancer
and they're extreme
antioxidants all by themselves.
But you put them
together and they
appear to form some
kind of a synergism.
And synergism is kind of
an overused word nowadays,
but it's used to say that
when you put things together,
they work better.
Like a plant.
We'd be better off to
eat the virgin plants
and organic plants than
any type of supplements,
but we can't eat enough of them.
I mean, you can't sit down and
eat six pounds of broccoli,
and six pounds of cauliflower,
and six pounds of spinach,
and on and on every day,
especially if you have cancer.
But you need that
kind of nutrition.
And so there's a synergism
in the Protandim.
Especially for people who've
undergone chemotherapy
because it's just
tremendous antioxidant.
And someone who's undergone
chemo or radiation
become oxidized.
They start to rust internally
and acidify internally.
Inflamed.
And the Protandim helps
that dramatically.
And it's a very anti-cancer
product in itself.
We've actually heard reports,
and I've written about a few
of them in my newsletters
and I think in the book
as well, about people who only
use Protandim for their cancer,
and they've had great results.
MSM, it's really
an amazing thing
when you think it's
truly organic sulfur.
And when you think of
sulfur in the body--
most people don't
know this, but we
talk about the body being 70%,
75% water and all of that,
but people don't know that
by weight volume in the body,
sulfur is 25% of
the body by weight.
It's in your bones, it's in
your muscles, it's everywhere.
And people simply don't
have enough of it,
nor the right kind of it.
So we highly recommend this.
And actually, we see
MSM and organic sulfur
as being an integral part of
the cancer healing process.
And I won't go deep into
that because it goes back
to this new plant extract that
we're developing that's based
on a sulfur medium as well.
And it's not time for
that yet, but it's
a very interesting thing that
we'll talk about in the future.
But sulfur is
incredibly important.
And I'm working with a
guy right here that I'm
going to see here tomorrow.
He is a former big time
celebrity and still is.
He's still performing
at 80 years old.
I won't mention his
name today, but you'll
be able to meet him tomorrow.
He has prostate cancer.
Got him the MSM because he
had a lot of pain, pain gone.
>> Really?
>> Pain gone.
And no one can guarantee
that, but we see that.
And we see that it's an
effective and essential
nutrient within the body.
Yeah.
I recommend it highly.
Bill Henderson, who sits on our
advisory board, one of the best
cancer coaches in
the United States,
he's affected radical
change in cancer patients
and helped them--
thousands and thousands.
Maybe tens of thousands now.
He does the Budwig
Protocol, which
is a good protocol for
oxygenation of the cells
to kill the cancer.
I mean, Johanna Budwig
proved that, you know,
how many years ago?
She was effecting that change
in end stage cancer patients.
90% of them were getting well.
There's no drug
that can do that.
Nothing that can do that.
>> You've got the silver
rich proteins in that Budwig
Protocol.
>> Yeah.
That normally comes out
of organic cottage cheese
or organic kefir.
That's the sulfurated proteins.
Exactly.
And it's combined with the
omega 3s and the flax oil that
make that change,
that reaction that
takes place that allows it to
enter the cell and oxygenate.
But the sulfur,
spot on with that.
>> Now, Dr. Budwig discovered
that when she combined flaxseed
oil with its powerful healing
nature of essential electron
rich unsaturated fats
and cottage cheese,
which is rich in sulfur protein,
the chemical reaction produced
makes the oil water soluble and
easily absorbed into the cell
membrane.
She was a brilliant doctor.
Speaking of brilliant
doctors, earlier this year I
was privileged to
meet and interview
a doctor named Daniel Nuzum.
Dr. Nuzum has seven doctorates.
He teaches at four
different medical schools.
He's a toxicologist
and also an osteopath.
Some of this information
that he's about to share
is going to blow your socks off.
Check it out.
>> Florine and chlorine are
a group of-- on the periodic
table, they're a
group of halogens.
Chemicals called halogens.
Iodine is your largest halogen.
It's the most important.
Iodine's an essential element.
If you're iodine deficient,
you'll have thyroid problems.
If you're iodine
deficient, you'll
have blood sugar
metabolization problems.
It's been said that you cannot
become type 2 diabetic unless
you're iodine deficient.
So there's a whole vast--
iodine keeps your kidneys
from being infected.
It keeps your liver
It's a disinfectant.
Iodine is an absolutely
essential nutrient.
But it's the largest
of the halogens.
So the iodine receptor site is
a big receptor site on the cell.
If something else gets into
that receptor site, which
we have bromine, fluorine,
and chlorine, or fluoride
and chloride.
Those are smaller halogens.
Those molecules are smaller.
They can fit into that
same receptor site.
When they do, they block
iodine from being absorbed.
It's not until your body
has a surplus of iodine
that it starts to release
the fluorine, and chloride,
and bromine, and things like
that so the iodine can then
fit into that receptor site.
So when I teach toxicology
in the universities,
first thing I tell people is
if you're nutrient deficient,
you're a toxin sponge.
Just like I'm showing
you here, if you're
missing iodine in
that receptor site
and you come into contact
with fluoride in the water,
chlorine in the water--
bromine is a
preservative in breads.
Anything baked has
bromine as a preservative.
So if you're coming into contact
with these other toxic elements
and you're missing
that iodine, they're
getting stuffed into
that receptor site.
So you're literally
absorbing these.
You're just readily
absorbing these nutrients.
Now, fluoride toxicity
causes the bone to dissolve.
It actually causes the teeth
to dissolve, believe it or not.
>> But isn't fluoride supposed
to be good for our teeth?
>> That's what they tell us.
I don't believe them, but
that's what they tell us.
If you get enough
fluoride into your teeth,
your teeth will
rot and fall out.
>> Wow.
>> That's one of the toxic
reactions to fluoride.
That's one of the signs of
fluoride toxicity, actually.
>> OK.
Your teeth fall out.
>> Right.
>> OK.
>> It does the same
thing with your bones.
It rots your bones.
It causes the bones to
become soft and brittle.
>> Is that why--
I read a study within
the last couple years
that fluoride has been
linked to osteosarcoma.
>> Yes.
>> That's why?
>> Absolutely.
>> Bone cancer.
Bone cancer.
Absolutely.
It weakens the bone.
It weakens the teeth, weakens
the jaw, weakens the bones.
Long bones, femurs.
Look at all the hip replacements
that have to happen, you know?
We have weakened bones.
And bones weaken as we get--
bones become harder and less
flexible as we get older.
They shouldn't get more brittle.
If we have a decent diet, we're
getting plenty of minerals.
We mineralize our bones,
they should become stiffer,
not more brittle.
>> But almost invariably
in most elderly--
I remember my grandma
before she died,
I think she broke her hip--
>> If you give her a hug.
>> She broke her hip
one time just walking.
>> Sure.
Absolutely.
Terribly brittle bones.
We've been fluorinated
in the United States
for about 70 years.
Heavily fluorinated.
And osteoporosis is rampant.
It's rampant in
men, elderly men.
And testosterone, which
is our boy hormone,
should keep our bones strong.
And despite that, the fluoride's
still eating away at our bones.
>> Talk about the relationship
of fulvic acid in treating
cancer.
>> OK.
Very good.
Fulvic acid is the end
product of decomposition
of organic matter.
As, I think, it composts--
as compost breaks down, it
ends up in this black soil.
>> Good stuff.
And the reason it's good
stuff is that decomposition,
you took 50 pounds of
waste and decompose
down to five pounds
of, say, soil.
What you have there
in that soil is
the nutrition of
50 pounds of waste
all concentrated
down into that soil.
Well, there's things
called humic shale.
They're deposits all
around the world.
And what they are
is deposits of--
somehow, at some
point in history,
they were massive forests that
got thousands of tons of dirt
dumped on them followed by
thousands of gallons of water.
In certain places, they got
so much dirt dumped on them
that they get pushed lower
into the crust and the amount
of pressure they were under
caused that biomass to convert
into petroleum.
In other places,
it was much closer
to the surface and the microbes
in the soil, the bacteria
and all the different
microbes in the soil,
acted on that biomass,
all this covered forest,
and decomposed it.
What we have left over
from that is humic shale.
It's basically the compost soil.
What we do is we take that
and we extract fulvic acid.
Now, fulvic acid is the
absolute smallest particle
of that compost, if you will.
It has all the
genetic information,
all of the nutrition, all
of the antioxidant capacity.
Fulvic acid, the
molecule of fulvic acid
has 14 tetra trillion
electrons it can donate.
>> Tetra trillion.
>> That's 21 zeros behind 14.
>> That's a number
you can't fathom.
>> It's unfathomable.
One molecule has that
many electrons to donate.
>> And that's one of the
problems with free radicals.
>> Sure.
It is a free radical quencher.
And it's so tiny that
it works on the outside
of the cell, works on
the inside of the cell,
and it works on the various
components of the cell.
Most importantly, it
works in the mitochondria,
the generator of the cell.
The power generator
for the cell.
In the Krebs cycle,
the energy cycle
that the mitochondria
has to go through
to produce cellular energy,
ATP, carbohydrate is split.
You have a carbon and
hydrogen bond that is split,
and when that happens,
energy is released.
The mitochondria produce
ATP, ATP goes out
to the rest of the cell,
the cell does its job.
The problem is
when that happens,
you have a carbon fragment
and a hydrogen fragment.
Those are called free radicals.
We call them cellular
debris, free radicals.
In essence, it's
kind of like if you
had a wood stove and you
burnt wood in there for a week
and never cleaned the ash out.
Eventually, the
wood's full of ash
and you can't burn anything.
That's what happens with our
cells and causes them to die.
They have so many fragments
of nutrients floating around
in them that it
snuffs the cell out.
It can't burn anymore.
You can't metabolize anymore.
Fulvic acid goes
into the cell and can
convert all of those
fragments of nutrients
back into nutrition.
>> Wow.
>> It's some cool stuff.
>> That's very cool stuff.
>> Very cool stuff.
>> I've never heard
of that before.
>> And nothing else
does that, is the thing.
It's an anti-aging agent.
It's an antioxidant agent.
It's a molecule that
will carry electricity.
So it acts as an electrolyte
in your cell without minerals.
It's a phenomenon.
>> It is.
>> It's a phenomenon.
When you're feeling
tired, when you're tired
and you're just
ran down, you just
don't have a lot of energy,
on a cellular level,
your cells aren't carrying an
electrical charge very well.
So if we can recharge the
battery, quote unquote,
all of a sudden you
have energy again.
Things start functioning
the way they should.
They have the
electricity to operate.
>> And our bodies are electric.
>> They're electric.
Exactly.
Now, this whole function
here of enhancing
the electrical capacity,
converting free radicals back
into nutrition is all
wonderful, but fulvic acid also
acts as a delivery system.
You can bond nutrients
to fulvic acid
and it will deliver
those nutrients.
It's a nano molecule.
It's a micro nano
molecule, actually.
It's smaller than nano.
Therefore, it crosses
all barriers in the body.
Blood brain barrier, everything.
Everything.
And it can carry nutrients
to whatever tissue,
whatever cells.
Wherever you need them to
go deliver the nutrients.
The interesting thing
about it, though,
is once it delivers
the nutrients,
it will take the waste, or
heavy metals, or pesticides,
or you name it, anything
that the cell doesn't want
or anything that's harming
the cell, pick that up.
It will bond that, we'll
say mercury, to fulvic acid
and carry it out of the system.
So you get this exchange
that happens there.
So I tell everybody it acts as
the UPS man and the garbage man
at the same time.
>> Wow.
>> Delivers its package, picks
up the garbage and takes it
out.
So when it comes to the
cancer, cancer cells
are very, very low
electrical activity.
So if we can raise their
electrical activity, which
fulvic acid does, we kill them.
High electrical activity
kills cancer cells.
Everyone in history
that had cancer
at the moment they
were hit by lightning--
everyone that survived lightning
strikes that had had cancer,
didn't have cancer after
they were hit by lightning.
>> No kidding.
Across the board.
Every cancer patient that--
>> Because that electrical
energy killed the cancer.
>> Killed the cancer.
>> And so that's what
fulvic acid does?
>> Fulvic acid has that
electrolyte capacity to raise
the electrical
activity in the cells,
and it destroys
cancer cells that way.
We also have the capacity
of removing the waste,
delivering the nutrition.
That's not to mention,
depending on the fulvic acid
that you're getting-- our
fulvic acid is high in carbon,
high in hydrogen,
and high in oxygen.
And so we go back to what I
first started talking about,
this is how we use fulvic
acid for balancing that 96.3%
of our body's composition.
>> Wow.
>> You know, we use that
in conjunction with diet,
with water, with all
these other things,
and everything just
happens faster.
We can get them well faster
with the fulvic acid.
I believe God knew we were
going to mess up things here
and he pre-programmed
into the mix
this humic shale that is
so rich in fulvic acid,
and just was waiting for
us to discover it so we
could use it to fix things.
And my family, my wife
has taken fulvic acid
through every pregnancy.
We have extremely
healthy children.
I've been using and researching
fulvic acid since 1996.
I've had upwards of
8,000 patients take this,
and we've only had good results.
>> 8,000 patients.
>> Never had any trouble.
My children take it every day.
We live on this
planet, so we're going
to be exposed to
this environment.
And for me, for my children,
I want to protect them
as much as possible.
And so my children use--
we give them the
fulvic every day.
Every day.
>> Why is it that more people
haven't heard about these
natural treatments for cancer?
>> First off, the
practitioners have been,
the doctors have been persecuted
so horribly they're afraid
to advertise.
They're afraid to put
their hands up saying, OK,
we're over here.
It's working.
You know?
They're afraid to do that
for fear of being squashed
or attacked.
That is first and foremost.
I mean, they don't
advertise because they're
afraid of getting
attacked, number one.
So therefore, people
don't hear about it.
Number two, media
does not cover it.
You know, media has no coverage
of what's happening there.
>> Not to interrupt you here,
but a perfect example is that
a while back we had the
CDC story of the vaccines,
the MMR vaccine being
definitively linked,
the whistleblower, autism.
And where was the
media coverage?
>> Zero.
Zero.
Those folks trying
to get the story out,
they're even under
fire for doing that.
>> Right.
>> That's the problem.
The politics of medicine
are keeping people
from getting better,
is the problem.
>> When you say the
politics of cancer,
kind of elaborate on that.
What do you mean by that?
>> How do we make the maximum
amount of money on cancer?
That's the politics.
Bottom line is money.
Bottom line.
If the pharmaceutical companies
cannot patent a treatment,
they can't maximize
their income on it.
They can't maximize
their profit shares.
Therefore, it
doesn't behoove them
to use those types of remedies.
And if you could sell a
medication to a patient
to keep them alive--
maybe extend their
life, keep them alive.
Not make them healthy,
but extend their life.
Every month that they have
to buy that medication
is another sale you made.
This is the business
of medicine.
That's how it works.
It's unfortunate.
I mean, medicine is
as much a business
as it is a practice anymore.
It's a shame.
>> So why haven't more people
heard about these treatments?
It's all about
selling more drugs.
Maximizing revenues.
This is the cancer industry.
>> The cancer industry is a
multibillion dollar industry.
And the doctors that are
graduating from med school
are funded by
pharmaceutical industries.
So what they're
learning in school
is how to use drugs
to mask the symptoms
and how to cut out
specific body parts.
Now, don't get me
wrong, there may
be times in a crisis
situation where
you have to cut out a body
part, or fix a broken bone,
or help somebody
through a heart attack,
but they're not being taught
on how to get sick people well.
They're driving
the symptoms deeper
by giving people medication.
And the cancer
industry is really
driven by greed and money
because there is a cure.
People are healing
from cancer every day
without the use of toxic drugs.
There are literally
thousands and thousands
of published studies that
prove the effectiveness
of natural medicine.
But you can't patent a plant
and you can't patent an herb.
Therefore, there is no money and
no financial gain in teaching
people about these things.
>> The average cancer care for
a person from stage one to stage
four will range anywhere from
$350,000 to $1.4 by the end
of stage four.
Million dollars.
So the thing is they
make money on that.
And now with the recurrence
rate being anywhere between 50%
and 80% within five years
from conventional treatment,
then we get you twice.
So I tell my patients, even
if you have insurance--
even when people have
great insurance, which
is helpful for some
catastrophic care,
they still have to pay a co-pay.
They still have to pay 10%,
20% of the hospitalization.
So unless you have $100,000
or more extra dollars
in the bank that's
cash to be given,
the second most common cause
of foreclosure in America
is health care costs.
So not only are we
bankrupting them on one side,
we're bankrupting
their health as well.
And we have to look
at now what can we
do that's cheaper,
that's effective,
and has access to everybody,
regardless of whether they
have an insurance card or not.
>> Managing symptoms, managing
disease, it's very profitable.
As is the oncological field
because of its monopoly status.
But healing is a whole
different paradigm,
and that's why sometimes
never the twain
shall meet when you try
to talk to some folks that
are programmed in a way
that I was growing up.
It's like a completely
different language
to learn that the symptoms
are actually good.
You welcome them.
Even though they
may be unpleasant,
but they're very
focused on telling you
something about
what's happening.
And if you learn the
language and listen,
you can change your future.
>> Wow.
Fascinating information, folks.
In tonight's episode, we've
heard from many medical doctors
that are using natural
treatments in their practices
to heal cancer.
Tomorrow night, we're
going to actually
be able to interview
some doctors that
have used these
treatments on themselves
when they were
diagnosed with cancer.
So you're going to get
this information straight
from the doctors that have
treated themselves successfully
when they were diagnosed.
This is going to be an episode
that you don't want to miss,
and I hope you tell you friends.
Information that
can save your life
or the life of a loved one.
Hope you enjoyed tonight's show.
Tomorrow night's show is
going to be even better.
God bless you.
Have a great evening.
So I'm here with
Chris Walsh today.
We're at the Center for Advanced
Medicine and Clinical Research.
Dr. Rashid Buttar's
office in North Carolina.
Thanks for being with
us here today, Chris.
>> Good to be here.
Thanks for having me.
>> And we're sitting
in front of the fish.
So tell me tell
me about the fish.
What do they reminds you of?
>> It reminds me of being here
four years ago when I started
my treatment here.
I used to stare at
them while I was
waiting in the waiting room.
Kind of lost, not knowing what
my future was going to be.
>> Right.
>> Kind of diving into a
whole new world of alternative
medicine and finding
a way to health.
>> So you were here
for what reason?
You were here because you
had been diagnosed with what?
>> I had Clark's
level four melanoma,
which was supposedly the worst
kind of melanoma in the deepest
layer of the skin.
>> Skin cancer.
>> Yes.
Skin cancer.
It was four years ago almost
today I was diagnosed.
And from what we found out, it
had kind of made its tentacles
inside my leg.
So they thought that I probably
wouldn't have a leg from here.
And then, obviously, you know
the conventional treatments
would have made it worse.
I wouldn't have had a
leg, and I'd probably
be dead now anyway.
At that point, I was
really scrambling.
And so I went and just kind
of did as much research
as I could.
I actually went and
found your book, "Cancer:
Step Outside the Box,"
which really opened
my eyes to a lot of things.
I mean, I had no idea
about any of this.
I went and bought Patrick
Quillin's book, "Beating Cancer
with Nutrition."
Started following
that immediately.
And I saw doctor Dr.
Buttar speak at a--
he did a little seminar
at his old office.
I didn't know what he did,
but I remember thinking,
that place seems
really interesting.
So I called my buddy up, but
I couldn't remember his name.
He said, oh, it's Dr. Buttar.
I looked him up and he just
so happens to treat cancer.
So I said, I don't
like my options now.
I already talked to supposedly
the best guy in Cleveland
and that's not what
I was going to do.
So I called Dr. Buttar,
I got a consultation,
and within the first 15 minutes,
I knew I was going to do it.
I mean, I didn't know anything
about holistic or alternative
medicine, and what he said to
me just made so much sense.
Like, why isn't
everybody doing this?
You know what I mean?
It seemed like such common sense
to me, but I guess it's not.
I played golf professionally
for the last 10 years.
And so I was in
the sun every day
and slathering on
sunscreen thinking
that I was doing myself a
favor, but since then I've
come to learn that I think
that was probably one
of the causes of skin cancer.
Just bathing in those
chemicals every day.
So I got to Dr. Buttar.
As they do all the
tests, I had high levels
of mercury, lead,
barium, some just really
strange, heavy metals.
I had parasites, I had
viruses, my immune system
was really weak.
The strength of my
immune system was weak.
I had amalgams in my mouth.
I mean, I had a lot of
mercury, which really
disrupts the immune system.
>> So did he put you on a
protocol to remove the mercury?
>> Yup.
Pretty serious detoxification.
I went through chelation
therapy for 20 weeks.
I was taking about
100 supplements a day
to kind of rebalance everything.
The terrain in my body was
pretty ripe for cancer to grow,
rather than for health.
So we had to change a
lot of those things.
I had a lot of gut issues.
The bacteria in my gut
wasn't working properly.
It wasn't what it
was supposed to be.
>> The good bacteria,
the healthy flora.
>> The balance was way off.
You know, I wasn't eating
properly at the time.
I completely changed
my diet and completely
changed using the cookware
I used, the soap I used,
the detergent, everything.
I mean, I changed
everything in my life.
Everything's so toxic and
everything that most people
use that's mainstream is toxic.
They all lead to cancer, so
I just changed everything.
>> And apparently it worked.
>> It worked well.
Yes.
>> I see two legs.
>> I have two legs.
I'm feeling great.
My health's never been better.
I never get sick.
I just feel totally different.
>> That's awesome, man.
>> It's been a good
learning experience.
>> So the cancer is
completely gone now?
>> Completely gone.
Yeah.
My immune system is back
functioning perfectly.
I'm as healthy as a
newborn baby, I guess.
>> That's awesome.
I know that the testing
that he's done now,
I know Dr. Buttar's level
of impeccable records.
>> Sure.
>> So I know that by talking
to you here that he's done
the tests to show that
there's no cancer--
>> Absolutely.
>> --that can be
detected in your body.
>> Absolutely.
We did the test when I started,
and throughout the protocol,
and when I was done.
Everything came back great.
I was healthy.
The metals were
gone, the parasites,
the viruses were gone.
My immune system and immune
function came back to normal.
>> Which is so vital
in treating cancer.
>> Absolutely.
>> The immune system is
actually what does the work.
>> Absolutely.
>> The body kills the cancer.
>> A good doctor aids the immune
system in fighting it off.
I mean, you go get
radiation or chemotherapy
and the cancer is
gone, the environment
is still there for
the cancer to grow.
Your immune system doesn't work.
I mean, it will come back.
That's what happens
all the time.
It happened to both my
parents, unfortunately.
I've seen it.
>> Mine too.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, this is really
encouraging, Chris.
You're here four years later.
>> Four years later.
>> You were told that you
wouldn't have six months
or you'd have a leg missing.
>> Almost four years to the day.
I mean, it's about
four years to the day.
>> So we're back at the
fish four years later.
Chris, your story is
an inspiration to me.
I know it's an
inspiration to everybody
that's watching it right now.
Thank you for
spending the time--
>> No problem.
Happy to be here.
[MUSIC PLAYING]